American Express Bought 9 Acres land from DLF in gurgaon.
Delhi is the capital of country an dmeant to grow in any condition. Delhi is the base for the Indian Government.
Infosys opening new campus in NCR.
COst of living.
Transport System
Language
Roads
Delhi roads are wide with several flyovers, outer ring roads and they are interlinked with each other.
Bangalore roads are very narrow and these roads are not linked with each other. Often you have to take main roads (which are congested) as compared to internal roads in the neighborhood
2) Metro

Delhi Metro is the world's 11th longest metro system in length and 16th largest in ridership [1] . It has total length of 277 km 202 stations (including 6 on Airport Express line)
Namma Metro is the world's 83rd longest metro system in length. It has total length of 42.3 km serving 41 stations
3) Language

The most popular language in Delhi is Hindi, spoken by 81% of the population.English is also widely spoken and is used for official purposes. 7% of the population speaks Punjabi and 6% of the people speak Urdu
The most popular language in Bengaluru is Kannada, spoken by 41.54% of the population.English is also widely spoken and is used for official purposes. 18.43% of the population speaks Tamil and 15.47% of the people speak Telugu [3]
4) People

Everywhere there are good and bad people and don’t hang me for this point. I find people of Delhi rude and arrogant. They have little tolerance in dealing with people on the streets and that’s the reason incidents of road rages in Delhi are very high. Delhi houses so many politicians and bureaucrats so you have a culture of “Do you know me?, I am relative of XYZ”
People at Bengaluru are professional, polite and down to earth.
5) Crime rates

As of 2016, Delhi has the least safe State/UT with the highest cognizable crime rate of 160.4 (per 100,000 persons). Women feels unsafe in public transport and they fear to return back home late at night
Bangalore crime rate is 45.8 (per 100,000 persons).
6) Street shopping

Good options of fancy street shopping at Delhi Karol Bagh Market, Sarojini Nagar Market, Lajpat Rai Market, Delhi Haat, Chandani Chowk, Janpath Market. There are several good options to buy fancy dresses, electronic items etc.
In Bengaluru you have limited options like MG Road, Commercial street, Chickpet
7) Weather

Delhi has extreme weather in Summer and Winter
Bengaluru has pleasant cool weather throughout the year. If the temperature goes high you get rain for 1–2 hours in the evening. You need fan during the month of Mar , April and May and you can manage without the fan and AC for rest of the year
8) Tourism

Delhi has lot’s of beautiful place to visit like Red fort, India gate, Rashtrapati Bhavan, Qutub Minar, Lotus Temple , Akshardam , Kingdom of dreams. You also have lot’s of places to visit at outskirts of Delhi.
Bangalore doesn’t have lot’s of options within the city. You can visit Cubbon park, Lalbagh , Vidhan Souda, Nandi hills. However there are number of places to visit outside of Bangalore like Mysore, Coorg, Chikmagalur. A perfect place for trekking.
9) Food habits

Delhi food culture is influenced by it’s border states like Punjab and UP. People love to eat Paranthe, Chole Bhature, Butter Chicken, Paneer butter masala, Biryani, Parantha’s at Delhi are so famous that there is a street named as “Paranthe Wali Gali ” at Chandani Chowk. You can get all different types of Paranthe like Alu Paranthe, Gobhi Paranthe, matar Parathe, Sattu Paranthe. If you visit Delhi then don’t miss to drink Lassi (full of malai) and faluda.
Bangalore equally has good options and people prefer to eat Idli, Vada, different kind of dosas, Kesar bath. The food habits are influenced by neighbouring states like Andhra. There are chains of Andhra restaurants that offers delicious and spicy Biryanis. People love to eat traditional food on banana leaves during wedding ceremonies.
10) Cost of living

Delhi is the 2nd most expensive city of India. 2017 Mercer ranking [5] ranks Delhi has 99th most expensive cities of the world
Average cost of 1 BHK - Rs 16,403 [6]
Average cost of meal for 2 in an inexpensive restaurant - Rs 250
Average cost of Taxi per km - Rs 11
Bangalore ranks 166th globally in most expensive cities of the world (according to 2017 Mercer ranking)
Average cost of 1 BHK - Rs 14,735 (Cheaper)
Average cost of meal for 2 in an inexpensive restaurant - Rs 150 (Cheaper)
Average cost of Taxi per km - Rs 12 ( Expensive)
11) Industries and Job opportunities

Delhi NCR is the industrial hub of India. There are several Electrical and Electronics, Home Consumable industries, Plant and Machinery, Pharma companies in Noida, Faridabad, Ghaziabad. It also has strong presence in IT and Gurgaon was knows as the BPO city of India. It has several successful Start-ups like Zomato, PayTM, MakeMyTrip.
Bangalore is known as Silicon Valley of India and there are several successful IT companies like Infosys and Wipro. It’s also known as Start-ups capital of India and there are several successful Unicorns like Flipkart, Ola. Bangalore also has several Aerospace and Aviation Industries like Boeing, Airbus, GE Aviation, HAL, NAL etc. Bangalore also has strong presence in Space technologies like ISRO or Team Indus - Indian team chosen by Google to send robots to the moon. It also has Biotechnology companies like Biocon
Personal choice - I would prefer Bangalore over Delhi due to

Lovely weather
Relatively less pollution than Delhi
Cosmopolitan work cuclture
Lot’s of IT job opportunities
City is far safer than Delhi



Employability: Both the cities have ample opportunities to earn your bread and butter. Startups and new businesses emerge out everyday in these places, and the huge industrial presence ensures your job safety (both for their employees and non-employees).


Connectivity: Both the cities are very well connected with rest of the world. International Airport and few big railway stations at different corners of the city makes it feasible for anyone to migrate in and out.

Public Health and Medical Facilities: Benglauru’s public health is better than that of Delhi’s, but Delhi gets an upper hand with Medical Facilities, with AIIMS and the government hospitals doing wonderful job.


Especially Technical Student. Bangalore provides you a lot of opportunities. There are nearly 20 reputed technical institutes both affiliated and autonomous which is a lot for a single city. Some of the best known colleges are:-

MVJ college of Engineering.
RV college of Engineering.
PES Institute of Technology.
BMS Institute of Technology.
Dayanand Sagar College of Engineering.
(These colleges are not mentioned by ranking and there are a few other reputed colleges as well.)

Delhi has some good technical institutes as well albeit lesser in number. Some of the top rated Technical Institutes in Delhi are:-

IIT Delhi.
Delhi College of Engineering.
NSIT.
Maharaja Agrasen college.
Apart from these, Delhi has some good colleges for Law, Medical, Management and Fine Arts. This is where Delhi tips off Bangalore.



Soft water, in bangalore u have to struggle for soft water, This leads to hair fall problems for people who have been raised while using Soft water, Delhi-ites suffer from heavy hair fall due to water in bangalore


